## :zap: June 28, 2022

**CLI version: 0.8.67** 

In addition to several stabilty improvements, this release introduces two very exciting new Datastores features for our BYOC users! If you're not a BYOC user, but would like to learn more or try out these features, don't hesitate to reach out to us at support@grid.ai

## :file_cabinet: What's New with Datastores

### Private S3 Mounting  (BYOC Users Only)

Grid now supports the ability to create Datastores from private AWS S3 buckets by using
the `--no-copy` mode via the CLI. This is particularly valuable for incrementally adding data to the source bucket and for speeding up datastore creation when working with large buckets. 

In order to allow Grid to access your private buckets,
you'll need to create an authorized AWS Role using the `grid credential create --type s3`
command (explained in detail in the link below). After creating a role, you can run the
`grid datastore create S3://<private-bucket-name-here> --no-copy` command as usual - no
modifications needed. 

[Create a credential](../docs/platform/3_credentials.md)

[Create a Datastore from a private S3 bucket](../docs/features/datastores/2_Using%20Datastores/2_creating-datastores.md#creating-datastore-from-private-aws-s3-buckets-byoc-users-only)

### High-Performance Datastores (BYOC Users Only)

High Performance Datastores (HPDs) allow Bring Your Own Cloud customers who are looking to scale large datasets to optimize latency and significantly speed up data access. Currently, HPDs are backed by the FSx for Lustre service and offer more scalability and higher throughput than conventional Grid datastores backed by AWS S3. 

HPDs are most useful for very large datasets (>1TB) or when a dataset is going to be using by a large number of concurrent experiments or sessions.

[Create a High-Performance Datastore](../docs/features/datastores/2_Using%20Datastores/7_high-performance-datastores.md)

:::note
If you are interested in learning more, or enabling either of these features, you can contact support@grid.ai
:::

## Session Memory Improvements

- Disabled virtual memory limiting for GPU machines in Sessions, preventing out of memory failures
- Grid Runs now default to 0 CPUs. We recently discovered an issue with runs where setting `--cpus` to 1 would also reduce the memory, causing lots of OOM issues. In previous versions of Grid, this was the default behavior. We've updated this behavior to set `--cpus` to 0 by default. By setting `--cpus` to 0, Grid will allocate all available CPU and memory to the experiment.


---

